[Music]
welcome to the show i'm not allowed to
talk about
i'm your host definition durden and this
video are breaking down all the best
easter eggs
hidden details and things you missed in
fight club released in 1999
the anti-corporate mind-bending movie
was massively ahead of its time
and though its style twist and ending
have often been mimicked
they've never been duplicated it's very
fourth wall breaking
and this even goes beyond the film
itself as
when you put in the blu-ray it doesn't
have a title
hinting to one of the big rules in the
movie when you start it up you'll be
taken to what appears to be the menu
screen for drew barrymore's never been
kissed
and when i first put the disc in i
genuinely thought i'd been given the
wrong film
it completely caught me off guard to the
point i took out the dvd
to make sure i'd put in the right one
and yeah i must admit fincher
that he completely got me like many of
you out there i eventually realized what
i get it it's very clever but this idea
of tearing down a commodity and
commercial image of course ties into the
message of the film itself
the film actually starts with a
disclaimer that appears on screen for a
split second
and these are of course common on dvds
and blu-rays
most of the time people don't bother to
read them however if you pause it and
check out what it says
you'll see that it's actually a message
from tyler telling you that just by
reading this
you're wasting your life he pretty much
berates you for
doing everything that you're told to and
that actually reminds me
you should like comment and subscribe to
this video and from here we go to the
title sequence and can hear classical
music
[Music]
which is then cut to play the heavy
theme tune of the actual movie
this is showing us that the foundations
of what we expect in a film are going to
be pushed to the side
for this more contemporary piece we then
jump to the narrator
who doesn't even really have a name take
that protagonist
and this is very much to give us the
idea that he isn't really a person
and that the persona he develops slowly
starts to become the main one
the opening line of the film is the
character saying people are always
asking me
if i know tyler didn't this is a little
meta joke as we learn that the pair are
indeed one in the same
however this reveal is only brought
about at the end of the movie
now before his appearance on the
aeroplane tyler actually appears on
screen at several points for a split
second
these are all blink and you'll miss it
moments that work very much in the same
way that the character describes
inserting hidden frames into films
and slowly it sets up the notion that
tyler is infecting the narrator's mind
before he fully materializes
for the clips on screen now we've slowed
down the footage so that you can see
every time he pops up
but in the movie itself it's almost
impossible to catch unless you're
looking for it
watching it in the cinema where you
can't rewind stuff i can imagine that
many people didn't even see him
and thus tyler is subliminally inserting
himself into the audience's mind
much in the same way that he does the
narrators similar to this
is the idea of corporations now being
part of every aspect of society
and this is slotted into the movie
through the use of starbucks cups
throughout the film these pop up at
several major points and though
initially just thought to be some set
dressing
the sheer amount of them goes far beyond
that fight club very much
carries the idea that we must rebel
against the system
and like the matrix this corporate
ideology surrounds our characters at
several points
even if we and they are unaware of it in
the film
we learn that the first two rules of
fight club are that you do not talk
about fight club
these two rules are exactly the same
much like how our two main characters
are
in fact the rules of fight club are very
clever as they get people
used to breaking the rules early on if
the rule about not talking about fight
club was actually upheld
then the club would not gain any more
members however we see throughout the
film that it grows exponentially
thus we can take it that everyone is
talking about it
and in doing so they're becoming
comfortable with breaking the rules
now one rule that also gets broken that
we know for definite
is that meatloaf wears a shirt we are
told that you're not allowed to
but he actually had to don one to cover
up the fact that he was wearing a fat
suit
the narrator starts to go to support
groups and when looking through a list
of them there's one that says
are you schizophrenic little clue
towards the end
cut to the narrator meeting tyler for
the first time and
just before it the character has a dream
that he's on an airplane as it's about
to crash
this idea of his death happening before
he starts what's a new chapter of his
life
is of course a clever way to introduce
tyler and we are also given a hint that
the pair are one and the same when the
narrator remarks that they have the same
briefcase
the narrator's apartment is blown up by
tyler who
prior to this scene did reveal that he
knew how to build explosives
though it is thought by then alright and
that the pilot light on the stove went
out
in respect we know that tyler was behind
it and the clues
do start to fit into place after the
police discuss what happened later in
the film
the narrator also says to the
investigating officer that the condo was
his life
thus it being destroyed shows a complete
change in his
in the introduction to it we see how the
narrator very much sees his identity
being in the things that he owns and
therefore this location being torn down
makes him carve out a new one we can see
amongst the rubble that he also has a
yin and yang table
showcasing the duality between the two
characters that we follow
it's not too long before he goes and
calls tyler as he needs a place to stay
he however hangs up the phone and tyler
calls back
but if we look closely on the set we can
see that it doesn't actually receive
incoming calls
hinting to us as to what's really going
on here there's also
several clues that tyler isn't a real
person and during the second fight we
can see that the crowd only ever look at
the narrator
rather than tyler the character also
lives on paper street
which is typically defined as a street
or location that appears on a map
but one that doesn't actually exist in
reality tyler's business card is also
the paper street company
and the logo of it has two identical
figures staring at one another
hinting towards the dual personas the
pair start fight club and one of the
more interesting members of the group is
jared leto
who plays angel face during a monologue
tyler says that they were all promised
to be rock stars
and he actually looks at jared who at
the time was headlining with 30 seconds
to mars
which is a little bit of irony there now
we also see at one point that a fight is
started with a priest when a man sprays
a hose at him
this priest later pops up in the film as
part of fight club
showing that the ideologies are starting
to be embraced by all aspects of society
when the pair get on the bus there's
only one ticket bought hammering harm
the idea that they are only one person
there's also a bystander that walks past
tyler but bumps into the narrator
hinting at the former not really being
there they actually see an advert for
calvin klein underwear
and tyler remarks throughout the film
that in wearing underwear in general
that someone is fitting in with the
system throughout the film when he
shirtless you can actually see that
he's going commando tying in with his
easter egg in a nice little way
anyway back to the clues and when
holding a gun to the back of the
shopkeeper's head
he also only answers questions when the
narrator tells him to answer tyler
this is because he is the only one in
this scenario and therefore
raymond as we learn he is called only
sees that as being one person
during the car crash scene we can see
that tyler is the one driving the car
and yet when we cut to the wreckage he
actually gets out the passenger side
and pulls the narrator out of the
driver's one tyler also appears in the
hotel welcome video
which further hints to him not being
someone that actually exists in the
narrator's life
when tyler gets punched the narita
actually winces alongside him
showing how the two are affected at the
same time
as he gets the chemical burn tyler's
face also starts to sweat along with the
narrators
and there are tons of clues towards this
lace throughout the movie not too long
before we meet marla
and helena bonacota actually told her
makeup artist
to apply her makeup with her left hand
because she didn't want it to seem like
carl and knew how to properly put it on
or even cared about her appearance carla
very much
represents a strong and independent
woman and the narrator is very much
angered by her
invading a space that he thinks should
belong to men and thus he invents a
toxic persona to handle being
emasculated
marla's phone number is also five five
five zero one three four
which just so happens to be teddy's in
the movie memento
during the sex scene between her and
tyler she asks who he is talking to when
he answers the door
and i'm telling you yeah the narrator
there are
they're all there now the narrator
refers to himself and tyler as
us tomorrow and she asks what he means
by that showing that she's only aware of
one person
when on the phone to the officer
investigating the apartment explosion
tyler ramallah stopped having sex likely
because the narrator was actually on the
phone at this point
so he couldn't be doing both now one of
the big questions over the movie
is how marla gets taken to the tower at
the end of the film
but when she gets on the bus we can see
that the driver has a black eye
showing that he was a member of project
mayhem at the end of the movie
the narrator says to tyler i want you to
really listen to me
just before he shoots himself tyler
suddenly pricks up as he says this
and this is because earlier in the film
the narrator says damala
when people think you're dying they
really start to listen to you
the narrator truly believed that he was
going to die at this point
and this is the reason that i think he
manages to kill tyler
even though he only shoots himself in
the cheek throughout the movie we
watched as a person
started to deconstruct their own
existence and thus they created another
person in order to fill the void
therefore the narrator trying to end his
own life means that he ends the need for
tyler
and it does sort of make sense when you
really start to think about it
the movie itself tackles the idea of old
masculinity
such as savage men that want to fight
one another rebelling against the more
sensitive person that they've been told
to be
this is shown through bob who has
breasts and the hugging scene which is a
big moment for the narrator
tyler is very much about coming in and
shaking this idea up
but we very much see how this leads to
nothing but destruction and loss
tyler is very much about embracing one's
male primal side
but whether this is the right path to
take or not depends on your perception
of society and the world around us
whilst tyler wants people to break free
of the trappings of society
he also ends up creating project mayhem
a group of men with no individual
identity
that follow orders without question we
learn that the punishment for exposing
this is castration
and this actually has a lot of depth to
it this makes it seem like tyler wants
men who don't fall in line to be reduced
to less than that
but the fact that narrator ascends
beyond this and decides to reject these
ideas by killing tyler
shows that he no longer embraces these
toxic ideologies
and has gone on to become a better man
it's a really complex film
and one that still feels relevant after
22 years
making it in my opinion one of the best
movies ever made
now obviously i'd love to hear your
thoughts on the movie and if there's any
cool easter eggs that we missed then
make sure you comment below and let me
know
if you enjoyed the video i'd really
appreciate it if you hit the thumbs up
button and also don't forget to
subscribe for breakdowns like this each
and every day
thanks so much for checking out the
video and if you want something else to
watch then make sure you check out our
breakdown of the dark knight which will
be linked on screen right now
we go over all the best easter eggs in
the film and it's definitely worth
checking out if you want to know more
by the way i've been the narrator you've
been the best and i'll see you next time
take care peace